# HIGHHorizons
Github repository for the HIGH Horizons research project (funded by Horizon Europe)

What the project does: The HIGH Horizons project addresses a number of key knowledge gaps around the quantification and monitoring of direct and indirect impacts of heat exposure on maternal, newborn and child health. In the project, pregnant women, infants and health workers serve as sentinel populations for tracking climate change impacts, adaptations and co-benefits. These are key populations and protecting them is critical for creating a living and working life that is health promoting, and for ensuring a healthy future for the next generation. The project includes eleven partners across ten countries in Europe and Africa and encompasses activities in both the EU and sub-Saharan Africa.

We quantify and monitor direct and indirect health impacts of extreme heat; test a personalised Early Warning System (EWS); and implement integrated adaptation-mitigation actions in health facilities.

Analyses of heat impacts and data science predictive modelling using health data from Sweden, Italy, Greece, Kenya and South Africa underpin all activities. Specific biomarkers are measured during pregnancy and in infants in a prospective mother-child birth cohort in Greece to explain the role of heat exposures on adverse health effects. These analyses and systematic reviews inform testing and selection of global, EU and national indicators as well as cut-off thresholds for the EWS, stratified by risk groups. Through a smartphone app (ClimApp-MCH) the EWS delivers notifications and setting-specific messages, co-designed locally. The app will be evaluated among 600 mothers and infants in Sweden, South Africa and Zimbabwe, from antepartum through 12 months of infant age. Simultaneously, we document impact of heat exposure on health worker wellbeing, health, productivity and quality of care, including through time-motion studies. Modifications to health facilities are co-designed and modelled to reduce heat exposure for health workers and to limit facilities carbon emissions. Health worker outcomes and facility emissions are compared before and after the mitigation and adaptation interventions of which the cost-effectiveness is evaluated. Throughout we engage relevant stakeholders in both conduct of the research and dissemination of project findings, prioritising country partners, EU and global policy makers and leveraging existing networks.

How users can get started with the project: Users can have a look at our website (https://www.high-horizons.eu/).

Who maintains and contributes to the project: Currently only Birgit Kerstens, project manager of the HIGH Horizons project, is maintaining this repository on behalf of Ghent University. Contact birgit.kerstens@ugent.be.
